 User Guide for Bahamut 1.4
 ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^

 Contents:
 1) Introduction
 2) What's new in 1.4
 3) Installing Bahamut

----------------------------------------------------------------
 Introuction
 ^^^^^^^^^^^

 Welcome to Bahamut 1.4, the next generation of ircds. With one
of the most advanced ircds available, you'll be online and
aceepting users in no time. Although bahamut is strictly
written for the DALnet IRC network, the code is made available
publicly so that others may benefit from its features and
stability.

 Online resource are also made available for those needing
assistance with setting up and maintaining your server. Mainly
there is documentation that is made available at our website
http://bahamut.dal.net/ to email support which you can obtain
by sending a mssage to dalnet-src@dal.net.

 The dalnet-src@dal.net email address is a public mailing list
where you can subscribe to by sending an email to
majordomo@dal.net with the message of 'subscribe dalnet-src'
with no topic, and without the ''s.

 If at anytime you do find bugs or errors in the program, we
ask that you send those bug reports to ircd-qa@dal.net so that
we may correct those in future version.

----------------------------------------------------------------
 What's new in 1.4
 ^^^^^^ ^^^ ^^ ^^^

 If you're just upgrading from bahamut 1.2 or earlier, you'll
notice alot of major changes and improvement in the way the
server operates. Main features which have been pronounced in
the 1.4 versions include:

 * Compression and encryption of server to server communications
   which uses zlib, and rc4 respectivly

 * Hostmasking for IRC Operators, where a static hostmask is
   set and operators can use by using a specialized I:line.
   The real ip can be viewable by clients with the usermode +A
   (server administrator).

 * A new function called DCCALLOW blocks users from sending
   files which could be potential viruses from untrusted users.
   To allow a blocked filetype to be recieved on a users end
   they may simply use the '/dccallow [+|-]user' command.

 * A new variety of channelmodes which includes:
   +O - Restricts a channel to allow only server operators to
        join a specific channel.

   +R - Denies a user not using a registered nick (or not
        identified with services) to join a specific channel.

   +M - Denies a user not using a registered nick (or not
        identified with services) to speak in a specific
        channel.

 * A new variety of usermodes which includes:
   +x - Squelches a user so that they may not perform various
        commands like privmsg. This usermode sends a notice to
        the user letting them know they are being squelched.
        This usermode is only settable by a ULined server.

   +X - This usermode works in pretty much the same manner as
        '+x' but does not imform the user that they are being
        squelched. This usermode also is only settable by
        ULined servers.

   +F - Bypasses the ircd's recieveQ throttling. This usermode
        can only be used by opers with the 'F' flag in their
        OLine.

   +j - Client rejection notices are now only sent to opers
        using this usermode.

   +K - Kill messages from ULined servers are now only sent to
        opers with the umode '+K' which should help clear up
        the regular usermode '+k'.

 * Channel QLines is much like nickname QLines where it denies
   a user from joining a specific channel.

 * Improved handling under high loads.

 For a complete list of changes made, feel free to consult the
changes pages on the Bahamut website.

----------------------------------------------------------------
 Installing Bahamut
 ^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^

 If you currently have able experience in setting up an ircd,
then this process should be pretty familiar to you. This
section is aimed torwared the novice user, and a more detailed
version of this is available on the bahamut website at the url:
http://bahamut.dal.net/documentation/install.php

 To start off, if you do not already have a copy of bahamut go
ahead and download that now from either ftp.dal.net or the
bahamut website bahamut.dal.net.

 Once you've downloaded the bahamut tar file, you will start
out by decompressing the file you downloaded by using gunzip
and tar. The reccomended command syntax is:
'gunzip -c bahamut-* | tar xvf -'

 Now you'll change over to the newly created directory where
you'll run the two pre-setup script in the following order:
'./configure' and then './config'. The last 'config' script
will ask you various questions in which will determine how
and where your irc server will operate from.

 For those of you who have experience with limited or more
advanced coding you may wish to look over 'include/config.h'
to make modifications in areas where they are not covered in
the 'config' script.

 After you've done this, you'll run 'make' where at this point
you'll be compiling the source code and you'll have your actual
ircd program. If you've decided to put your ircd files in a
different directory such as '/home/user/ircd' be sure to make
sure that the directory you intend to run from is created,
and finally run the 'make install' script.

 After that, you'll edit your ircd.conf file for various
settings such as the servers name, client classes, and server
operators. In no time, you'll be up and running.

----------------------------------------------------------------
 $Id$
----------------------------------------------------------------
